Abstract method in java:

In oops concept abstraction is defined as hiding the unnecessary details (implementation) and just focus on the functionlity .

Advantages: it increase the efficency.
reduces complexity .
abstraction can be achived using abstract classes and methods 

Abstract class:
a class is declared with abstract keyword .it can have zero or more abstract and non-abstract methods .inorder to implement those methods we need to extend the abstract class .we cannot create instances for the abstract classes .

Any abstract class may or maynot contain abstract methods.

Abstract method:
a method with abstract keyword within the abstract class without implementaion(just with method signature /without body) is known as abstract method .

the subclass which extends the abstract class must implement the abstract methods .
we cannot use final modifier . .



Interface :
Another way of achieving the abstraction is using the interface concept.

there can only abstract methods in interface no body .
it is used to achive abstraction and multiple inheritance in java.
we can have abstract methods and varibles  .
It also represents IS-A relationship
 we cannot create instance same as abstract class .
Note:since java 8 we can have static and default methods in interface .
since java 9 we can have private methods 

by defualt in interface -> the fields are public static final ,and the methods are public abstract 

Example:
interface example{
int x=10;  // compiler will under stood it as public static final int x=10;
int add(int a,int b); // will understood it as public abstract int add(int a,int b);

} 


there may or maynot be abstract methods in interface.
multiple inheritance is provided by the interface concept .because in interface the implementation is provided by the implementaion class .so there is no ambiguity .


NOTE : By using the abstract class we can achive the partialuy abstraction where as by using the interface we can achiveve the fully abstraction



Inheritance represents the IS-A relationship which is also known as a parent-child relationship.
Aggregation represents HAS-A relationship where we will insert the class in the another class as a field .
